---
layout: post
title: Training
cover: none.png
date:   2030-01-01 12:00:00
categories: posts
---

On Site Training
---
Hopefully you've found this guide helpful in improving your computing workflow.  But I know that sometimes you can learn much more easily face-to-face.  Conveniently, I also like teaching face-to-face, we should totally hang out!

I do offer formal training for interactive computing workflow.  This can be a simple 1-day guided tour for your graduate department, a weeklong workshop getting a division trained, or even an ongoing support contract to help you through unusual situations.  If you're interested, please email me, Dan Van Boxel (the.dvb@gmail.com) to discuss scheduling and pricing.  


Problem
---

Suppose you've got a basic setup for data analysis with `ipython` and `vim` (and hopefully `tmux`).  In the text editor, you compose your commands (enjoying more power and flexibility than in `ipython`), and copy-paste away.  It works pretty well.  But every time, you have to copy paste, it distracts you from the data.  It doesn't seem like much at first, but it adds up.  But it's a toll you pay every time.  And it's a toll you don't have to pay.  So what's your workflow solution for a better REPL?

Workflow Options
---

1. Pure `ipython`
    + Focus is directly in REPL, "instant" feedback (this is huge)
    - Limited text editing support
    - Can save text, but only want "correct" lines (will have to edit later)
    - Lacks full terminal and associated shell programs
2. Vim + `ipython` copy-paste
    + Powerful text editing for command construction
    + Simply save file when done
    - Mental distance between code and execution
        * Highlighting exactly takes time and focus
        * Digital mental task ("execute this code and show me results") becomes analog dexterity one
3. Integrated Development Environment (IDE) (compromise)
    * Ex. Eclipse
    + Designed to work together
    + Supports lots of text editing and templating
    - "bloated" with unneeded features and widgets
    - May lack features you like (and are a pain to make work if at all)
    - Great for software development, but not designed for data analysis
4. Data Analysis GUI package
    * Ex. LIMDEP, Matlab, Rcmdr, Rkward
    + Fully integrated
    + Good at whatever its built for
        - But only what it's built for
        * Imagine coercing LIMDEP or, ugh, Excel, into doing `for` loops!
    + Inevitably, want some software that doesn't play nice

All of these have weaknesses and strengths.  So we're going to build our own using the [tools]({{ site.baseurl }}/{% post_url 2090-01-01-ipython %}) [described]({{ site.baseurl }}/{% post_url 2080-01-01-tmux %}) [previously]({{ site.baseurl }}/{%post_url 2070-01-01-slimux %}) for interactive data exploration.  Bridge the gap between your editor and your interpreter.  One or two keystrokes is all it takes; your fingers never leave the keyboard and your focus never leaves the problem.

* Improve your REPL; improve your computing effectiveness
* Make the computer compute; you do the fun stuff.

Getting the Tools
---

Use your [favorite](https://www.archlinux.org) Linux distribution's package manager to install `tmux`, `python3` (or `python2` for that classic feel), and `ipython`.  You're also going to want `numpy` and `pylab` for data analysis and visualization.  If you really like Ruby, you can swap that in for Python for similar effect.

`slimux` may not be available in your distribution repositories, but it's easy to install from source.  The [Github page](https://github.com/epeli/slimux) includes a simple guide.  Essentially, you install a vim plugin, `pathogen`, that allows you to easily install other vim plugins, like `slimux`.

I'm working on prepackaging all of these things.  I've had a virtual machine image, but that's a huge file.  A metapackage in the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org) is also a possibility.  One day, I swear there will be a flash drive with it all installed.

Once you have everything installed, jump into [`workflow`]({{ site.baseurl }}/{% post_url 2050-01-01-workflow %}).
