---
layout: post
title: `slimux`
cover: none.png
date:   2070-01-01 12:00:00
categories: posts
---

slimux
---

`slimux` is the blood that gives life to this workflow.  It enables you to keep your focus on the creative problem.

Workflow Options

1. Pure `ipython`
    + Focus is directly in REPL, "instant" feedback (this is huge)
    - Limited text editing support
    - Can save text, but only want "correct" lines (will have to edit later)
    - Lacks full terminal and associated shell programs
2. Vim + `ipython` copy-paste
    + Powerful text editing for command construction
    + Simply save file when done
    - Mental distance between code and execution
        * Highlighting exactly takes time and focus
        * Digital mental task ("execute this code and show me results") becomes analog dexterity one
3. Integrated Development Environment (IDE) (compromise)
    * Ex. Eclipse
    + Designed to work together
    + Supports lots of text editing and templating
    - "bloated" with unneeded features and widgets
    - May lack features you like (and are a pain to make work if at all)
    - Great for software development, but not designed for data analysis
4. Data Analysis GUI package
    * Ex. LIMDEP, Rcmdr, Rkward
    + Fully integrated
    + Good at whatever its built for
        - But only what it's built for
        * Imagine coercing LIMDEP or, ugh, Excel, into doing `for` loops!
    + Inevitably, want some software that doesn't play nice

Suppose you've got a basic setup for data analysis with `ipython` and `vim` (and hopefully `tmux`).  In the text editor, you compose your commands (enjoying more power and flexibility than in `ipython`), and copy-paste away.  It works pretty well.  But every time, you have to copy paste, it distracts you from the data.  It doesn't seem like much at first, but it adds up.  But it's a toll you pay every time.  And it's a toll you don't have to pay.

Solution: Bridge the gap with `slimux`.  `slimux` allows you to send text, lines, or arbitrary selections from `vim` to a `tmux` pane.  One or two keystrokes is all it takes; your fingers never leave the keyboard and your focus never leaves the problem.


`slimux` let's you send lines of code from `vim` to a `tmux` pane.  It's awesome!
